So we learned that react had this revolutionary idea of let me handle the damn updates because I know
the best way to do them the most efficient way.
You don't have to do that.
Just tell me what the page should look like.
Next big game changer was this idea of building Web sites like Lego blocks reactors designed around
the concept of reusable components just like you see in this app how each square or rectangle has different
color.
Well these are all components.
Each of these individual pieces create this whole app react.
Had this idea of small components that you put them together to form bigger components.
So you had the profile picture component.
You had the add component and then you had the navigation bar component and within here you had components
containing components.
So you had a component in here that was surrounded by another component that was surrounded by an ever
bigger component just like Lego blocks and all these small components whether they're large or big can
be used in different places.
For example I can have this component just copied over to multiple locations because while they're the
same thing and I can even move these over to different projects and reuse them so people can build these
components like material UI components that I could just copy and paste this code and added to my projects
like so you had different component libraries like react bootstrap again or something like blueprint
so people can now share these components across different Web sites across different projects and they
will all work.
Now this idea of components and react in a simple term is just plain JavaScript functions that we write
so we have the state over app or that is any data that describes our app.
For example the user is logged in whether it's true or false and maybe friends then components are created
based on that data well simply as functions.
And don't worry.
Don't get intimidated by this.
This is something that we'll cover throughout the course.
But components are simply just JavaScript functions that received some sort of input or attributes which
we call props.
And in return it returns this thing that kind of looks like HDMI all but inside of JavaScript and these
components can be built like this as a function or even as a class.
But the key here is that based on the state and these components that we built we have an entire component
that we can add to our page and reuse maybe over here as well if we wanted to.
Just like Lego blocks now.
Here is a simple react to do application.
And I'm going to be using something called the react developer tools which I recommend you install as
well in the Chrome Web Store.
You can add it to Google as an extension and what it allows you is when you click view developer developer
tools you'll now have the element stamp which shows you the dom of your app which you can see over here
but also a new tab called react and this react plugin actually allows you to see the components that
we built into an application.
Now you can see over here that this isn't exactly HCM l we're creating custom tags like header or filtered
list or footer that isn't valid HDMI all but you'll see that inside here.
All of these are actually well built by a shim on elements like header H1 or input.
So again this idea of a components architecture means that we can have some sort of data about our application
and we build these components ourselves and these components are what we call react components that
we built out of a metal tags that signify a component and each of these components work together to
eventually have our app and this component architecture is really really key in react because it allows
us to reuse and share components between projects so that if you wanted a date picker on your app well
instead of maybe building it yourself you can just google for it and say react date picker component
and just use somebody else's code but there's two more key concepts to get through.
So let's do that in the next video.